Los Angeles Has Secret Underground Starbucks Locations for Celebrities? | Snopes.com
Become a Member
Search
My Profile
Logout
Submit a Rumor
Latest
Trending
News & Politics
Entertainment
Fact Checks
Quiz
Sections
Latest
Trending
Fact Checks
News
Collections
More
Contact Us
Submit a Rumor
Archives
Quiz
FactBot
Newsletters
About Us
Categories
News & Politics
Entertainment
Science & Technology
Lifestyle
Free accounts support our journalism
Become a Member
Login
My Profile
Logout
Fact Check
Los Angeles Has Secret Underground Starbucks Locations for Celebrities?
A video circulating online suggested a secret pathway called "the Actor-Bahn" ran underneath the city.
Joey Esposito
Published Nov. 11, 2024
Image courtesy of Getty Images
Claim:
Los Angeles has secret, underground Starbucks shops serving celebrities free drinks located beneath the city.
Rating:
Labeled Satire
About this rating
A rumor that Starbucks has secret locations in
the underground
tunnels of Los Angeles, only accessible to the most elite members of society,
spread on social media
in October 2024.
The claim further
stated
that celebrities
use
these tunnels to avoid traffic. Finally, it said the secret coffee shops in these hidden tunnels
offer
free drinks to people like Oprah, Will
Smith
and Jerry Seinfeld.
According to one TikTok user's video, Seinfeld's coffee order of choice is a double-shot almond milk latte.
@comedianstevenrandolph
Invite only Starbucks for the elite 👁️☕️
#fyp
#foryou
#losangeles
#starbucks
#losangelestraffic
#inviteonly
♬ original sound - Steven Randolph
TikTok users replied to the clip with comments like: "I always wondered why I'd never seen Seinfeld in traffic. I assumed it was because I live in New Zealand, but this makes more sense." Another asked: "Have you ever wondered why you haven't seen 1 of a few hundred celebrities on the road, in a city of 3.8 million people?"
One simply said: "They need to raise the price of podcast equipment." Most people commenting on the claim appeared to take it as a joke, which was indeed its original
intention
.
The
claim
originated
on the
social media
accounts
of comedian
Steven Randolph
, who posted the video on or around Oct. 16, 2024. In the footage, he purportedly interviewed a former employee of the Starbucks locations in question. The so-called employee said, in part:
There is a Starbucks ... no one's ever heard of or been to. Have you ever wondered while driving in Los Angeles, how come you've never seen Will Smith stuck in traffic on the 405? ... That's because there's a series of intricate tunnels underneath Los Angeles known as "the Actor-Bahn" ... They get access points to move through the city without ever having to be in traffic ... In those tunnels is Starbucks, set up at different locations, to allow them to get coffees while they're driving.
When asked by the host to name individuals, the guest claimed to have seen Jerry Seinfeld,
Oprah
and Bono in the "secret"
Starbucks
and recited Seinfeld's beverage of choice as "Almond milk latte, two shots." The guest claimed there was no tipping because the stars didn't have to
pay for their drinks.
The interview subject, however, is comedian,
actor
and former "Survivor" contestant Bill Posley, who also posted the video to his
social media
.
Further, the duo
have
posted other,
similar videos
, including a satirical conspiracy theory about Costco stealing the DNA of its customers, with Posley, again, in the role of
a former
employee.
A spokesperson for the coffee company confirmed via email that the claim about a secret underground Starbucks was not
true
.
There is, however, truth to the claims about underground tunnels in Los Angeles
dating
back to the Prohibition era. According to
Atlas Obscura
, a self-described "global community of explorers, who have together created a comprehensive database of the world's most wondrous places and foods":
Despite prohibition laws, 11 miles of service tunnels became passageways to basement speakeasies with innocuous fronts above ground. Patrons were able to move about under the city, boozing it up without a care in the world, while the Mayor's office ran the supply of hootch… Aside from the service tunnels, there are also abandoned subway and equestrian tunnels from the days before personal vehicles began clogging up LA's city streets. There are stories of these tunnels being used by police to transport prisoners, bank security to move large sums of cash safely, and both coroners and mobsters to store bodies. Now they are mostly closed off, but some are still accessible and are used as film locations, easy shortcuts by city employees between buildings, and a place for runners to train on the rare occasion of bad weather.
Snopes has fact-checked a variety of claims about the city of L.A., including the
Los Angeles freeway chickens
, the
L.A. math test
and a rumor featuring another
underground tunnel
, this one leading from Diddy's home to the Playboy Mansion.
Sources
"Underground Tunnels of Los Angeles." Atlas Obscura, http://www.atlasobscura.com/places/underground-tunnels-los-angeles. Accessed 8 Nov. 2024.
By Joey Esposito
Joey Esposito has written for a variety of entertainment publications. He's into music, video games ... and birds.
Article Tags
Starbucks
Celebrities
Los Angeles
Not Necessarily The News
Recommendations
Featured Local Savings
Company
About Us
FAQs
Contact Us
Submit a Topic
Navigate
Home
Search
Archive
Newsletters
Random
Sections
Latest
Top
Fact Checks
News
Account
Join
Login
Game
FactBot
Like Us on Facebook
Follow Us on Twitter
© 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc.
This material may not be reproduced without permission.
Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
DMCA Policy