Fake Post Claims Gaetz Said He 'Almost Never' Dated Teens After AG Nomination | Snopes.com
Become a Member
Search
My Profile
Logout
Submit a Rumor
Latest
Trending
News & Politics
Entertainment
Fact Checks
Quiz
Sections
Latest
Trending
Fact Checks
News
Collections
More
Contact Us
Submit a Rumor
Archives
Quiz
FactBot
Newsletters
About Us
Categories
News & Politics
Entertainment
Science & Technology
Lifestyle
Free accounts support our journalism
Become a Member
Login
My Profile
Logout
Fact Check
Fake Post Claims Gaetz Said He 'Almost Never' Dated Teens After AG Nomination
"Guy's a perv and he just confirmed it," an X user claimed in response.
Anna Rascouët-Paz
Published Nov. 18, 2024
Image courtesy of Getty Images
Claim:
U.S. Attorney General nominee and now-former U.S. Rep. Matt Gaetz said he "almost never" dated teenagers in a post on X after President-elect Donald Trump nominated him.
Rating:
Fake
About this rating
In November 2024, the day after President-elect Donald Trump
nominated former U.S. Rep.
Matt Gaetz
to
oversee the Department of Justice
as U.S. attorney general, an account on X posted an apparent screen capture of a post attributed to Gaetz. Under one interpretation, t
hat post seemed to say he'd "almost never" broken a rule according to which it was appropriate for a man to date a person no younger than half his age, minus seven years
(in his case, teenagers) (
archived
):
Matt Gaetz
@mattgaetz
Being nominated to head the DOJ [U.S. Department of Justice] is such sweet revenge after they came after me for "sex trafficking." The general wisdom concerning age gap dating is to halve one's age and subtract seven. I'm 42 and almost never betrayed this general maxim over the last 10 years.
The X post, which appeared on the social network on Nov. 14, 2024, at 9:57 p.m. Eastern Standard Time (EST), had amassed 56,500 views and 2,100 likes as of this writing. The supposed screen capture was dated Nov. 13, 2024, at 12:37 with no precision as to whether it was a.m. or p.m., but presumably moments after Gaetz was nominated.
Some X users reacted as if the text on the image were real. "
Gaetz said he 'almost never' ignored that maxim," one said. "It only takes having sex with a minor once to be guilty of statutory rape."
However, the screen capture was fake. In fact, it
first appeared as a Reddit post
on Nov. 14, 2024, at 11:30 a.m.:
(Reddit/ToiletPaperUSA)
That post appeared on a subreddit known as ToiletPaperUSA, which according to its description was "
dedicated to the mockery of TPUSA, and conservative pseudo-intellectuals in general,
from a leftist perspective
" (emphasis theirs). TPUSA is a reference to
Turning Point USA
, a lobbying group dedicated to promoting conservative politics on high school and university campuses.
The Reddit post appeared with the "Fake News" flair, an indication that "the post is fake and most likely satire," according to an automated post by the subreddit. The rules of the subreddit stipulated that all fake news must be marked as such:
Fake (i.e., doctored, simulated, etc.) tweets must be flaired as FAKE NEWS which will trigger a top comment that also announces that the post is fake, so it needs to be flaired upon posting to trigger that comment.
It is true, however, that Gaetz once
suggested
on X — then Twitter —
in a retweet
that his state, Florida, should "change its welcome signs" to the phrase, "There's no age that you can't be be [sic] sexy" (
archived
):
Gaetz was also investigated
by both the department he was now poised to lead — pending confirmation by the U.S. Senate — and by the House Ethics Committee on allegations that he had sex with a minor, and that he had knowledge she was paid for this.
Sources
Schmidt, Michael. 'The Investigations Into Matt Gaetz: What to Know'. The New York Times, 14 Nov. 2024, https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/14/us/politics/matt-gaetz-investigations-explainer.html. https://archive.is/q5Ykk.
'Turning Point USA'. Turning Point USA, https://tpusa.com//. Accessed 15 Nov. 2024.
By Anna Rascouët-Paz
Anna Rascouët-Paz is based in Brooklyn, fluent in numerous languages and specializes in science and economic topics.
Article Tags
Matt Gaetz
Donald Trump
Department Of Justice
2024 Election
Recommendations
Featured Local Savings
Company
About Us
FAQs
Contact Us
Submit a Topic
Navigate
Home
Search
Archive
Newsletters
Random
Sections
Latest
Top
Fact Checks
News
Account
Join
Login
Game
FactBot
Like Us on Facebook
Follow Us on Twitter
© 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc.
This material may not be reproduced without permission.
Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
DMCA Policy