False Warning Claims 'Trump Arrested' Text Messages Attack Bank Accounts if Opened | Snopes.com
Become a Member
Search
My Profile
Logout
Submit a Rumor
Latest
Trending
News & Politics
Entertainment
Fact Checks
Quiz
Sections
Latest
Trending
Fact Checks
News
Collections
More
Contact Us
Submit a Rumor
Archives
Quiz
FactBot
Newsletters
About Us
Categories
News & Politics
Entertainment
Science & Technology
Lifestyle
Free accounts support our journalism
Become a Member
Login
My Profile
Logout
Fact Check
False Warning Claims 'Trump Arrested' Text Messages Attack Bank Accounts if Opened
Users posted in late 2024, "If you get a text that Trump was arrested don’t open it because it will attack your bank account. Tell all your friends."
Jordan Liles
Published Nov. 14, 2024
Updated Nov. 14, 2024
Image courtesy of Getty Images
Claim:
Opening a text message that says “Trump was arrested” will result in your bank account being attacked.
Rating:
False
About this rating
A
copypasta
warning is circulating online about the purported dangers of opening a scam text message — or potentially an email — that says U.S. President-elect Donald Trump was arrested. According to the claim, opening or clicking on a link in the message will grant scammers access to recipients' bank accounts. This warning began circulating on or just before Nov. 13, 2024, days after Trump's reelection
victory
and many months after his
indictments
on a range of criminal charges.
Snopes received numerous reader inquiries about the warning. For example, one reader asked, "Is it true there is a scam going on about a message that Trump got arrested, and if you click on it, they will scam and get access to your bank account?" Another reader shared a copied and pasted version of the rumor that claimed, "
Warning! If you get a text that Trump was arrested don't open it because it will attack your bank account. Tell all your friends."
X users
shared
the
rumor
, with one person
posting
(
archived
), in part, "HEADS UP!
If you get a text that Trump was arrested don't open it because it will attack your bank account. Tell all your friends. Delete immediately. May be nothing, but got from a reliable source."
A Facebook user also posted the rumor with a bright red background,
writing
(
archived
), "
Warning! If you get a text Trump was arrested don't open it! It will attack your bank account."
The warning is a hoax, however. We have yet to locate any screenshots or transcripts of an actual text message fitting this description. The hoax is similar to one we
reported
about in October 2016, which falsely claimed that clicking on a picture of
Trump
in a social media post titled "Donald Trump Arrested" would install a virus on users' devices.
We received nearly 20 reader emails and reviewed dozens of social media posts — and their comments — that warned users of the purported dangers of interacting with the "Trump arrested" text message. None of the emails, posts or comments, featured a screenshot or transcript of the supposed text message. Many of the emails and posts — and at least
one YouTube user
(
archived
) — said they learned of the matter from a family member, friend or acquaintance. We couldn't determine who started the hoax.
Further online searches — including of Reddit.com and its ever-reliable
r/Scams community
— produced no credible discussions about the purported
scam
or screenshots of the text message.
What To Know About Text Scams
Despite what some of the users claimed, consumers
can't get scammed
simply by opening and reading a text message. For a scam to succeed, the scammers typically need recipients to respond to the message or click on a link.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) published a
full guide
on text message scams, primarily that scammers attempt to steal consumers' personal and financial information. If any readers provided personal or financial details to scammers, we recommend reporting the text messages to the FTC using the instructions at the bottom of their guide. Additionally, we advise contacting the associated bank or credit card company — either by visiting a branch or calling an official number (not one provided in the scam text) — to address the issue.
If you find additional details on the purported "Trump arrested" scam text message, please
reach out to us
.
Sources
"How to Recognize and Report Spam Text Messages."
U.S. Federal Trade Commission Consumer Advice
, 19 Feb. 2020, https://consumer.ftc.gov/articles/how-recognize-and-report-spam-text-messages.
Levin, Bess. "A Fourth Arrest and a Mug Shot Turned Out Pretty Well for Donald Trump's Bottom Line."
Vanity Fair
, 28 Aug. 2023, https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2023/08/a-fourth-arrest-and-a-mug-shot-turned-out-pretty-well-for-donald-trumps-bottom-line.
Mikkelson, David. "'Donald Trump Arrested' Virus Warning."
Snopes
, 1 Nov. 2016, https://www.snopes.com//fact-check/donald-trump-arrested-virus-warning/.
"Text Message Scams: How to Recognize, Report and Restrict Them."
Panda Security Mediacenter
, 29 Nov. 2023, https://www.pandasecurity.com/en/mediacenter/text-message-scams/.
Tracking Donald Trump's Indictments. https://www.cnn.com/interactive/2023/07/politics/trump-indictments-criminal-cases/. Accessed 14 Nov. 2024.
By Jordan Liles
Jordan Liles is a Senior Reporter who has been with Snopes since 2016.
Article Tags
Scams
Politics
Donald Trump
2024 Election
Recommendations
Featured Local Savings
Company
About Us
FAQs
Contact Us
Submit a Topic
Navigate
Home
Search
Archive
Newsletters
Random
Sections
Latest
Top
Fact Checks
News
Account
Join
Login
Game
FactBot
Like Us on Facebook
Follow Us on Twitter
© 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc.
This material may not be reproduced without permission.
Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
DMCA Policy