Did JP Morgan Orchestrate the Sinking of the Titanic? | Snopes.com
Become a Member
Search
My Profile
Logout
Submit a Rumor
Latest
Trending
News & Politics
Entertainment
Fact Checks
Quiz
Sections
Latest
Trending
Fact Checks
News
Collections
More
Contact Us
Submit a Rumor
Archives
Quiz
FactBot
Newsletters
About Us
Categories
News & Politics
Entertainment
Science & Technology
Lifestyle
Free accounts support our journalism
Become a Member
Login
My Profile
Logout
Fact Check
Did JP Morgan Orchestrate the Sinking of the Titanic?
A rumor claimed that American financier J.P. Morgan canceled his journey on the Titanic hours before its ill-fated voyage.
Jordan Liles
Published Nov. 18, 2024
Image courtesy of Getty Images
Claim:
The sinking of the Titanic was somehow orchestrated by its owner, American financier J.P. Morgan, in order to kill three prominent businessmen who opposed the formation of the Federal Reserve.
Rating:
False
About this rating
An online rumor claims the sinking of the Titanic was an inside job. According to the claim, American financier J.P. Morgan orchestrated the sinking of the Titanic in order to kill three prominent businessmen who opposed the formation of the Federal Reserve.
For example, on Nov. 13, 2024, a user on X
posted
(
archived
), "
J.P. Morgan funded the building of the Titanic, and cancelled his long-awaited journey just hours before its proposed departure. 3 of the wealthiest men on earth, whom were against the creation of the Federal Reserve Bank happened to be invited aboard for its maiden voyage."
Also, for a number of years prior to 2024, users shared on social media websites a
meme
reading (
archived
), "Benjamin Guggenheim, Isidor Straus, [and John] Jacob Astor [all] opposed the new Federal Reserve bank. Today, these men would be worth $11 billion. All three of these men were aboard the Titanic when it sank. All three died that night."
A Baseless Conspiracy Theory
It's true that American businessman Benjamin Guggenheim, Macy's co-owner Isidor Straus, and fur magnate and real estate developer John Jacob Astor all perished in the sinking of the
Titanic
. However, the overall claim intimated by the meme was nothing more than a baseless conspiracy theory.
The misleading meme was born out of previous ones mentioning Morgan, who
owned
the companies that managed the Titanic and was not a passenger on its maiden voyage.
Past memes suggested that Morgan had somehow miraculously orchestrated the voyage to end in tragedy in order to kill Guggenheim, Straus and Astor.
"J.P. Morgan striking photographer with cane." (Courtesy: Library of Congress)
According to the memes, Morgan's supposed reason for planning the demise of the three prominent men was because they all opposed the formation of the Federal Reserve — the centralized banking system
established
in 1913, the year after the sinking of the Titanic.
The meme also said, "Today, these men would be worth $11 billion." However, it's unclear how much each of the men's descendants would be worth today had they survived.
Titanic Expert George Behe Says 'False'
In March 2021, Reuters
published
a thorough report that debunked the rumor behind all of the memes on this subject. The article included an interview with Titanic expert George Behe, whose research into the history of the Titanic goes back to the 1970s. According to Behe, there is no known evidence that showed Guggenheim, Straus or Astor opposed the formation of the Federal Reserve. In fact, in 1911, The New York Times
reported
that Astor was very much in favor of the idea.
The reporting from Reuters said experts widely agree that the sinking of the Titanic was an accident. The ship struck an iceberg on the night of April 14, 1912. Within hours, more than 1,500 people had
died
.
As for Morgan purportedly deciding to skip the voyage hours before departure, the Reuters story documented thoughts from three different historians:
"I've never been able to find an authoritative 1912 source explaining the exact reason why J.P. Morgan cancelled his passage on the Titanic, but he definitely didn't do so mere 'hours' before the ship's departure," Titanic expert George Behe said in an email to Reuters.
Meanwhile, Don Lynch, a historian at the Titanic Historical Society (THS), said: "One of J.P. Morgan's biographers said that France was changing its laws to prevent Americans from exporting art treasures from that country, so Morgan went to Paris to oversee getting his purchases out of the country before the new laws went into effect."
Also from THS, advisory board member Ray Lepien, said that as well as the art treasures theory, "the 'official' explanation was that he (Morgan) fell ill and wanted to take the 'cure' at a spa in France with his mistress." Lepien added: "It could have been both reasons."
We contacted Behe in an effort to find out if there had been any updates since Reuters published its story in 2021.
"To the best of my knowledge, the conspiracy theory is just as false today as it was when it was first created, and no important new revelations have turned up within the last couple of years," Behe told Snopes in an email dated Jan. 8, 2023. "Sadly, once these nonsensical conspiracy theories have been foisted upon the general public via the internet, the theories are destined to plague humanity forevermore and will continue to fool innocent people who are unfamiliar with the facts."
Thoughts from Historian J. Kent Layton
For further details, Behe pointed us in the direction of historian J. Kent Layton, who authored books including "Conspiracies at Sea: Titanic and Lusitania," "On a Sea of Glass: The Life & Loss of the RMS Titanic" and "Recreating Titanic & Her Sisters: A Visual History."
"We've been tackling this nonsense with historical data since at least the late-90s to early-00s," Layton told Snopes by email in June 2023. "However, social media is a fantastic breeding ground for conspiracies of all sorts. Titanic seems to be a favorite of many."
Layton remarked to us in detail regarding why the conspiracy theory made no sense to him:
I would point out that if the sinking had actually been a conspiracy to kill those three individuals, there would have been no way that they could ensure their actual demise unless they had locked them somewhere inside the ship to die as it sank. Instead, the evidence indicates that all three were seen during the sinking.
Guggenheim famously cast aside his heavy coat and lifebelt after his steward had helped him into them, saying that he and his manservant were "dressed in their best and prepared to go down as gentlemen."
Straus nearly made it into a lifeboat, and fellow passengers even recommended that he board a lifeboat with his wife, but he deferred, preferring to let women and children board while he waited behind with other men.
Astor was seen very late in the disaster, helping his wife into a lifeboat; when he asked an officer loading the boat, apparently Second Officer Lightoller, if he could board, Lightoller said no. However, Lightoller had maintained a rather rigid policy of allowing no men into the lifeboats that he filled, and there had been plenty of other opportunities for Astor to board a boat. In fact, we recently discovered an account that indicated that Astor and his wife had approached an early boat on the other side of the ship, when the situation seemed less serious, but that they had stepped back from the lifeboat of their own accord at the last moment and stayed for a while longer on the ship.
If a conspiracy to kill these three men had been so deep and involved so as to actually sink an ocean liner and kill hundreds of innocent people, one would think that the individuals responsible would not have left the survival of these three men to chance.
This story will be updated in the future should we uncover any further helpful information.
Sources
Beattie, Andrew, et al. "How the Federal Reserve Was Formed."
Investopedia
, 24 June 2007, https://www.investopedia.com/articles/economics/08/federal-reserve.asp.
Bird, Mike. "There's a Wild Conspiracy Theory That the Rothschilds Sank the Titanic to Set up the Federal Reserve."
Business Insider
, 12 Oct. 2015, https://www.businessinsider.com/conspiracy-theory-that-the-rothschilds-and-federal-reserve-proponents-sank-the-titanic-2015-10.
"CORRECTED-Fact Check-J.P. Morgan Did Not Sink the Titanic to Push Forward Plans for the U.S. Federal Reserve."
Reuters
, 17 Mar. 2021, https://www.reuters.com/article/factcheck-titanic-conspiracy-idUSL1N2LF18G.
"Federal Reserve Board - Structure of the Federal Reserve System."
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
, https://www.federalreserve.gov/aboutthefed/structure-federal-reserve-system.htm.
"ISIDOR STRAUS URGES NEW BANKING PLAN; Replies to J.J. Hill's Attack on the National Reserve Association Scheme."
The New York Times
, 16 Oct. 1911, https://www.nytimes.com/1911/10/16/archives/isidor-straus-urges-new-banking-plan-replies-to-jj-hills-attack-on.html.
"John Jacob Astor | American Businessman [1864-1912]."
Britannica
, https://www.britannica.com/biography/John-Jacob-Astor-American-businessman-1864-1912.
Kennedy, Dana. "Divers Find Champagne, Dishes In Shipwreck, But No Gold Yet."
AP News
, 16 July 1987, https://apnews.com/article/a9b6a7e5cd8104edf4501f876eebf44b.
Segal, Troy, et al. "Central Bank."
Investopedia
, 18 Nov. 2003, https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/centralbank.asp.
"The White Star Line and The International Mercantile Marine Company."
Titanic Historical Society
, 28 Mar. 2018, https://titanichistoricalsociety.org/international-mercantile-marine-company/.
TinEye Reverse Image Search
. https://tineye.com/.
"Titanic | History, Sinking, Rescue, Survivors, Movies, & Facts."
Britannica
, https://www.britannica.com/topic/Titanic.
By Jordan Liles
Jordan Liles is a Senior Reporter who has been with Snopes since 2016.
Article Tags
Titanic
Telegram
J.P. Morgan
Isidor Straus
John Jacob Astor
Benjamin Guggenheim
Recommendations
Featured Local Savings
Company
About Us
FAQs
Contact Us
Submit a Topic
Navigate
Home
Search
Archive
Newsletters
Random
Sections
Latest
Top
Fact Checks
News
Account
Join
Login
Game
FactBot
Like Us on Facebook
Follow Us on Twitter
© 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc.
This material may not be reproduced without permission.
Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
DMCA Policy