Snopes.com
Become a Member
Search
My Profile
Logout
Submit a Rumor
Latest
Trending
News & Politics
Entertainment
Fact Checks
Quiz
Sections
Latest
Trending
Fact Checks
News
Collections
More
Contact Us
Submit a Rumor
Archives
Quiz
FactBot
Newsletters
About Us
Categories
News & Politics
Entertainment
Science & Technology
Lifestyle
Free accounts support our journalism
Become a Member
Login
My Profile
Logout
Frequently Asked Questions
All your questions about Snopes, answered
Editorial Process
Do you accept guest posts?
No. Snopes does not accept, nor review, articles submitted by others for publication. If you want something fact-checked or investigated by our team, please use our
contact form
.
Why does Snopes cover satire?
No matter how unbelievable a story may seem to you, another person is taking it at face value — as a factual recounting
of real-life events.
Second, whether you agree with something being described as "satire" or "parody" is a matter of opinion. We explain more
here
.
What is Snopes' fact-checking process?
Since the material we fact-check can range from everything to analyzing whether an image has been digitally manipulated to explicating the text of a Congressional bill, we can’t describe any single method that applies to all our fact-checking efforts.

In general, each entry is assigned to one of the members of our editorial staff who undertakes the preliminary research and writes the first draft of the fact check.

Our research generally begins with (whenever possible) attempting to contact the source of the claim for elaboration and supporting information. We also attempt to contact individuals and organizations who would be knowledgeable about, or have relevant expertise in, the subject at hand, as well as searching out printed information (news articles, scientific and medical journal articles, books, interview transcripts, statistical sources) with bearing on the topic.

We attempt to use non-partisan information and data sources (e.g., peer-reviewed journals, government agency statistics) as much as possible, and to alert readers that information and data from sources such as political advocacy organizations and partisan think tanks should be regarded with skepticism.

Depending upon the nature and complexity of the topic, other members of the editorial staff may contribute additional research (or their own personal expertise) and editing. The final product will pass through the hands of at least one editor. Any piece that is not deemed up to our standards by one or more editors is subject to further revision and review before being released for publication.
Why does Snopes analyze the content of some political pieces, but only verifies who wrote others?
In general, when a political piece is primarily an editorial or other expression of opinion, we tag it as such and attempt to verify only whether the attribution is correct (since opinions are not falsifiable, the attribution is the sole aspect of the piece that may be objectively determined as being true or false). When a political piece purports to offer facts, we place it in a relevant category and analyze the factual claims made within for veracity.
What is Snopes' corrections policy?
Our policy is to promptly correct errors of fact and to clarify any potentially confusing or ambiguous statements in our articles and fact checks. Readers can submit potential corrections through our
Contact Form
.

Whenever we change the rating of a fact check (for any reason), correct or modify a substantive supporting fact (even if it does not affect the item’s overall rating), or add substantial new information to an existing article, those changes are noted and explained in an Update box at the foot of the article.

Corrections of typographical errors, misspellings, or other minor revisions not deemed substantive by our editors are not noted.

Please keep in mind that text appearing inside a box with a colored background is either an example of collected folklore or a quotation from another source, not our own writing. We reproduce these items exactly as we find them and do not edit them to correct orthographical errors.
May I submit items for Snopes to fact-check?
Yes! We always welcome reader tips and queries. Send us links to articles, social media posts, or images using our
contact form
. If you have screenshots or other relevant attachments, use the “Add File” button on the contact form. Include as much information as possible, including when and where you found the item you hope to see fact-checked.

Due to the volume of correspondence we receive every day, we regret that we may not be able to respond to your request personally.

Curious if we have already fact-checked the claim in question? Type in one or two keywords into our site search. Searches that are too lengthy or specific tend to produce fewer results.

To keep up with the latest fact-checking on Snopes.com,
subscribe to our newsletter
.
What tips is Snopes looking for?
Snopes cannot fact-check every dubious claim ever published, so we try to tackle what seems most prominent each day. In other words, we write about whatever items seem to be top of mind for readers, as well as viral rumors that could lead to misunderstandings and purported trivia facts.

Our research generally begins with (whenever possible) attempting to contact the source of the claim for elaboration and supporting information. We also attempt to contact individuals and organizations who would be knowledgeable about, or have relevant expertise in, the subject at hand, as well as searching out published information (news articles, scientific and medical journal articles, books, interview transcripts, statistical sources, historical archives, public records, and videos and photos from reputable agencies) with bearing on the topic.
How does Snopes decide what to write about?
We have long observed the principle that we fact-check whatever items readers ask us about, or are searching for, as well as viral rumors that could lead to misunderstandings and purported trivia facts.

We don't choose (or exclude) items for coverage based on whether they deal with Republican/Democratic, conservative/liberal, or religious/secular issues. We're open to tips on any given subject, no matter their perceived importance, controversiality, obviousness, or superficiality (or lack thereof). We are, of course, limited in how much we can cover by our available resources and staffing.

The inputs we use to identify topics include the tabulation of terms entered into our search engine, reader email submissions, comments and items posted to our Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram accounts, external social media posts, as well as what's trending on Google and social media.
Snopes 101
Who works at Snopes?
Snopes has been fact-checking folklore, urban legends, hoaxes, memes, and rumors on the internet for more than 25 years. It began as something of a hobby and has grown considerably since. Now
our team
of fact-checkers, developers, and support staff is probably greater than you can fit in a large passenger van, although we haven’t scientifically tested that yet.
Why are some Snopes stories rated 'Legend'?
An “urban legend” is not the same thing as a “fictional tale” or an “apocryphal anecdote,” although many people mistakenly use the term in that sense (e.g., “That’s not true; it’s just an urban legend!”).

A tale is considered to be an urban legend if it circulates widely, is told and retold with differing details (or exists in multiple versions), and is said to be true. Whether or not the events described in the tale ever actually occurred is irrelevant to its classification as an urban legend.

For example, the tale about a student who mistakes a math problem thought to be unsolvable for a homework assignment and
solves it
is an urban legend, even though something very similar did once happen in real life. The tale is still an urban legend, however, because over the years many of its details (i.e., when it happened, where it happened, the identity of the student, the reaction of the student’s instructor) have changed as it has spread.
How can I arrange for a Snopes staff member to speak at my event?
Thank you for thinking of us. Please send a complete summary of the event details using our
Contact Form
.
Why are some articles published without a ‘True’ or ‘False’ rating?
In addition to fact-checking, Snopes publishes original news stories, in-depth investigations, and other material we believe will help readers understand and contextualize information they encounter.

Fact checks, which use our rating system, are clearly labeled.

To stay up-to-date on all Snopes content,
subscribe to our newsletter
.
What's the deal with Snopes' rating system?
Distilling the veracity of a topic or event into a one-word assessment can be challenging. Sometimes labeling an article “true” or “false” is not appropriate to the question at hand, or it doesn’t tell the whole story. Our
rating system
has a variety of labels, so we can be accurate, clear and fair. It’s important to take note of the claim statement on each article, as the specific wording of the claim is what the rating evaluates.
Is Snopes hiring?
Thank you for your interest. If we are recruiting for any positions, we will make the information available on our
Careers
page.
What makes Snopes a reliable resource?
Snopes has been answering questions on the internet for more than two decades (since before Google existed, even) and millions of readers are still consulting us every week. 

We like to think our portfolio of work speaks for itself. But we wouldn’t be particularly reliable fact-checkers if we didn’t corroborate that.

In a profile on
BBC News
, Snopes is described as
“the go-to bible for many fact-checkers.”
“I haven’t done a paper in the past 10 years that I haven’t also checked to see what Snopes had to say about it first,” Patricia Turner, professor of folklore at UCLA, told the
Los Angeles Times
.
“Anything that raises hairs on the back of my neck, I go to Snopes.”
“Do the Snopes.com articles reveal a political bias?” wrote
FactCheck.org
. “We reviewed a sampling of their political offerings, including some on rumors about George W. Bush, Sarah Palin and Barack Obama, and we found them to be
utterly poker-faced
.”

And in 2019 Popular Mechanics included Snopes on its list of
“The 50 Most Important Websites of All Time.”
(Find more media coverage
here
.)

Of course, we don’t expect anyone to accept us as the ultimate authority on any topic. No single source, no matter how reliable, is infallible. Anyone can make mistakes. Or get duped. Or have a bad day at the fact-checking bureau.

However, unlike so many anonymous individuals who create and spread unsigned, unsourced messages across the internet, we show our work on Snopes.com. Research materials used in the preparation of any fact check are listed so that readers who wish to verify the validity of our information may check those sources for themselves. Just click the “Sources” button at the bottom of an article.

Feeling skeptical? That’s probably a good sign. Keep looking for more information. We will, too.

See something we missed?
Contact us
.
Is Snopes partisan?
Are we Republicans or Democrats? Conservatives or liberals? Administration supporters or a secretly-funded tool of the opposition?
According to our readers
, we’re all of the above. Somehow we performed the remarkable feat of being decidedly biased in every possible direction.
What does 'snopes' mean?
Snopes is the name of a family of characters who appear throughout the works of American writer William Faulkner.

When David Mikkelson, creator of Snopes.com, began publishing on the internet in the late 1980s, he worried even back in those relatively uncrowded days that no one would remember yet another David. He was inspired to adopt a nom-de-Net, selecting one that honored those fictional Faulknerian characters, and began signing his newsgroups posts as “snopes.”

Over the years snopes established a reputation for his ability to thoroughly fact-check and debunk false claims. When it came time to name our domain, snopes.com seemed the obvious choice.

Wondering about the pronunciation? It rhymes with “soaps.”
I spotted a typo on Snopes.com. How do I report it?
Corrections are always welcome; but keep in mind that text appearing inside a bordered box with a colored background is either an example of collected folklore or a quotation from another source, not our own writing. Because these items are pieces of folklore, we reproduce them exactly as we find them and do not edit them to correct orthographical errors.

Use our
contact form
to alert us to any mistakes or typos you think Snopes, and not a quoted source, has perpetrated.
Tech Support
Why are there no comments on Snopes.com?
Comment sections can be where civil people go to share thoughtful opinions in a respectful manner. They can also be, and often are, places where anonymous trolls look to give you a digital wedgie and insult your mother for a good time. Instead of investing in hosting and moderating comments, we prefer to focus our efforts on what we do best: fact-checking.

That said, we enjoy hearing from our readers. You are welcome to comment on our stories on social media or in our
Facebook group
, where you can also engage directly with other Snopes readers.

To send us questions, corrections, or concerns, please use our
contact form
.
Does Snopes have an API?
Snopes does not have an API available to the public. If your organization is interested in gaining access to our fact check data, please
contact us
to discuss potential commercial opportunities.

If you are a researcher or academic institution who would like access to our data, contact us at the same address. We may be able to work with you to reduce barriers to access.
May I reproduce Snopes material on my website?
No. Using our material without our permission is copyright infringement, even if your site is noncommercial, and even if you give us credit.

Our writers and editors work hard to keep our information accurate and current, and when other people reprint our material we no longer have any ability to update it when new information becomes available. Reprinting our material without permission also deprives us of the advertising revenues we need to continue operating this site as a free resource.

You are welcome to link to any of our articles from your site, but you may not reproduce the content of our pages on your own site, nor may you distribute the text of our articles via email forwards or mailing lists, or by posting them to message boards or blogs. (All of these actions constitute copyright infringement.)
How do I subscribe to Snopes newsletters?
Thanks for asking! Sign up on this page.
How do I unsubscribe from Snopes newsletters?
Sorry to see you go! Just enter your email address in the unsubscribe prompt on this page.
May I put a link to your site on my website?
Of course! That is, unless your site is throwing shade our way. Then you must link to us at least 17 times per page.
Ads and Finances
Why does my security software register intrusion attempts at Snopes.com?
Most internet advertising exchanges use cookies to keep track of which ads have been displayed to a particular visitor. These cookies do not acquire or collect any personal information about visitors (such as name, address, phone number, or email address), and the technical information they do temporarily store (such as geographic location, browser type, and IP address) is used solely for the purpose of targeting ads and measuring a given ad’s effectiveness. Nonetheless, some security programs flag such cookies as “adware” and/or mistakenly report cookie placement as an attempt to download software to the user’s computer. If you are uncomfortable with the use of cookies to temporarily store non-personal information, you can delete the cookie or alter your browser’s security settings to prevent it from accepting cookies.
Why are some ads on Snopes.com covering up article text?
All of our advertising is carefully positioned not to obscure any of the text or other elements within our articles, but not all browsers properly render the code used to align advertisements. If you encounter difficulties in reading an article due to a particular advertisement contained therein, you can usually eliminate the problem by simply refreshing the page, which will (in most cases) cause different ads to display within the article.

If you are experiencing difficulty with a banner ad obscuring the search engine entry box on an article page, you can get around this issue by simply using our main
search page.
An ad on Snopes.com seems disreputable or causes problems with my computer. Can you get rid of it?
The advertisements you see on Snopes.com are provided by Google, Amazon, Facebook, and other large-scale advertising exchanges. They are served to users based on a number of factors, including but not limited to: the content of a web page, your browsing history, and where you are located.

Snopes has little control over which ads display on your screen when you visit our site, but we do maintain aggressive quality controls to prevent misleading or “clickbait” ads from getting into the mix. Sometimes bad actors mask malicious ads and malware in order to bypass our quality controls and those of our partners. We are doing everything in our power to monitor this activity and block those bad actors when and if they get through.

We do our best to ensure the advertisements we carry on our site are as inoffensive as possible, and we filter out ads that advocate partisan political causes or candidates, flash excessively, contain adult material, play (non-user-initiated) audio, spawn multiple windows, automatically trigger downloads, install malware, or misleadingly claim visitors have won contests or report the presence of viruses or spyware.

However, with several million different advertisers rotating through our site on a daily basis, we can’t possibly preview every advertisement appearing on our site (and vet all the sites they link to), so sometimes we’re not aware we’re carrying an ad that violates these guidelines until a reader points it out to us. (Some advertisers deliberately change their names from month to month or furtively switch pre-approved ad copy in order to bypass filters and fool advertising agencies and webmasters who have previously excluded their ads.)

If you encounter issues with any advertising on our site, please contact us immediately at
adops@snopes.com
. Please include as many details as possible (e.g., name of the advertiser, description of the ad, or a screen capture of the ad). Please note that without these details (especially screenshots) it is often difficult for us to identify a particular problem as many ads are geo-targeted to specific countries or regions of the U.S.; and if the geotargeting excludes the area where we live, we can’t see the ads for ourselves.
Why does Snopes have so many ads?
Without ads, we couldn’t afford to operate this site as a free resource for everyone. That said, we are committed to providing the best reader experience we can.

If you encounter issues with any advertising on our site, please contact us immediately at
adops@snopes.com
. Please include as many details as possible (e.g., name of the advertiser, description of the ad, or a screen capture of the ad). Please note that without these details (especially screenshots) it is often difficult for us to identify a particular problem as many ads are geo-targeted to specific countries or regions of the U.S.; and if the geotargeting excludes the area where we live, we can’t see the ads for ourselves.
Is Snopes funded by mega-donors such as George Soros or the Koch Brothers?
No. Snopes is completely independent. Our operations are sustained by advertising revenue and generous contributions from readers.
Membership
How do I become a Snopes member?
You can become a Snopes member by visiting our
membership page
and selecting the membership product that works best for you. After you’ve purchased your membership, you’ll receive an email with information about how to create your Snopes Account to access ad-free browsing and more.
Please note: direct contributions do not include memberships.
What is a Snopes membership?
Memberships allow our readers a way to support Snopes with a sustainably sized contribution that helps us keep the lights on and, more importantly, helps us do it ourselves. Our memberships also offer special benefits, like ad-free browsing, a community badge, and a members-only newsletter called the Snopes Digest.
To learn more, click
here
.
I have already paid for an account. Do I need to pay again to access ad-free browsing?
If you’ve paid for a membership, you will receive an email to register for your Snopes Account, which is how you can access your membership benefits (such as ad-free browsing). This email will be sent on membership launch day. You don’t need to pay again until your membership expires.
What is “passwordless login” and why does Snopes use it?
We’re using a passwordless login system for a few keys reasons:
1. It’s more secure.
With a username and password system, users tend to choose a password they’re comfortable with (such as their birthday or pet’s name) or credentials they’ve used for other accounts. As a result, if hackers get access to one account, they can gain access to many, leading to a “domino effect” that can put all of your information at risk. A passwordless system removes this threat.
2. It’s simpler
. Since your Snopes account will be tied to your email, you won’t need to remember complicated passwords or periodically renew your password to keep your information safe. All you’ll need to do is remember the email address associated with your account to log in.
3. It’s becoming the norm.
Many other industry leaders are moving towards passwordless login systems for both reasons above, so it very well may soon be used by other websites you frequent.
How do I log in?
Go to
snopes.com/login
and enter the email address associated with your Snopes Account. After you’ve submitted your email address, check your inbox for a unique, temporary six-digit number. If you do not receive your verification code within a few minutes of logging in, please check your spam folder.
Once you’ve
copied the temporary code sent to your email address, go back and enter that same code to log in. You’ll be logged in until you choose to log out or your login expires.
Note:
In order to log in and access Snopes’ membership services, you’ll need to keep your login page open while you check your email.
I’m logged in but still seeing ads. How do I enable ad-free browsing?
First, please make sure your account has a membership. Memberships can be purchased
here.
If you’re logged in to your Snopes Account and you are a member, navigate to your member profile by clicking the button next to our search bar on the top right corner of Snopes.com. Scroll down your account page and make sure the “Disable Ads” toggle button is turned “on” to browse Snopes without ads.
If you have created and logged into your Snopes Account before purchasing your membership, you’ll need to log out and back in before you can turn on ad-free browsing. To log out, click the “Log Out” link located in the footer on the bottom of Snopes.com, and then visit snopes.com/login to log back in.
If you’ve followed these steps but still seeing ads, please contact us at
accounts@snopes.com
and we’ll help.
I’d like to change the email address I use to log into Snopes.
We don’t currently offer a way for users to update their email addresses on their own. Please reach out through
our contact form
or by emailing us at
community@snopes.com
. If possible, please email us using the email address currently associated with your Snopes account.
I think I found something that doesn’t work correctly on Snopes.com. How can I report problems?
You can submit any errors you see through
our contact form
or by emailing us at
community@snopes.com
. In the report, please include a brief description of the error and attach screenshots, if possible.
Is Snopes becoming a paid service?
Snopes is not becoming a paid service, but by supporting Snopes with
a membership
, you gain access to exclusive benefits through your Snopes Account. These include a community badge, ad-free browsing, and the Snopes Digest, a twice-monthly newsletter for members only. All online articles and fact checks will remain free.
I haven't received an email with my verification code. Can you help?
If you do not receive your verification code within a few minutes of logging in, please check your spam, junk, and promotions folders.
If you still aren't receiving your verification code email, please contact us at
accounts@snopes.com
so we can continue to help you troubleshoot.
I can’t get my login code from my email inbox without closing the login page. What should I do?
To access Snopes’ membership services, you’ll need to keep your login page open while you check your email. We recommend tabbed browsing for desktop users.
If you’re on a desktop computer or laptop computer:
First,
note that Snopes.com only supports modern browsers like Safari, Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome, or Mozilla Firefox, and we recommend that they’re updated to their latest versions.
If you’re on a desktop or laptop device, you’ll need to have two browser tabs open to log into Snopes. If you navigate away from
www.snopes.com/login
, your session will reset.
We recommend opening a separate tab in your browser to view your email and then returning to your login tab once you have obtained the login code from your inbox. Most modern browsers use the shortcut
Command + T
on MacOS or
Control + T
on Windows to open new tabs. Once your tabs are open, you can navigate to other browser tabs by simply clicking on them. Tabs are usually organized near the top of your browser window.
Once you’ve entered your email address into the Snopes login page and your new tab is open, navigate to your email inbox, find your code, then return to your previous browser tab to enter it to continue.
If you’re on a mobile device like a phone or tablet:
Some mobile devices open browsers from within your email app that don’t support multitasking or tabbed browsing. We’re looking at solutions for mobile devices that are less cumbersome and appreciate your patience in the meantime.
For now, try opening a separate browser on your mobile device (like Safari or Chrome) and navigating to www.snopes.com/login. Once you’ve entered your email address, return to your email client to receive the login code, then return to your browser to enter it.
Will I have to log in every time I want to use my Snopes membership? How often do I have to log in?
You don’t need to log in to use your Snopes membership every time, but we do require that you log in again after
3 consecutive days
(or 72 hours) of inactivity.
Contributions
I really want to help out with a larger contribution to keep you all going. How can I do that?
We would really appreciate your help. Contact us to get the conversation started.
Are contributions to Snopes tax-deductible?
Your support of Snopes does not constitute charitable giving, and your contribution is not eligible for a tax-deduction. However, it does enable Snopes to continue bringing you essential fact-checking to combat misinformation.
Company
About Us
FAQs
Contact Us
Submit a Topic
Navigate
Home
Search
Archive
Newsletters
Random
Sections
Latest
Top
Fact Checks
News
Account
Join
Login
Game
FactBot
Like Us on Facebook
Follow Us on Twitter
© 1995 - 2024  by Snopes Media Group Inc.
This material may not be reproduced without permission.
Snopes and the Snopes.com logo are registered service marks of Snopes.com
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
DMCA Policy