climate change Archives - FactCheck.org
Facebook
Twitter
Tumblr
Close
Skip to main content
FactCheck
.org
®
A Project of The Annenberg Public Policy Center
FactCheck
.org
®
Home
Articles
Featured Posts
FactCheck Posts
SciCheck
En Español
2024 elections
Players Guide 2024
Debunking Viral Claims
Ask a Question
Ask FactCheck
Ask SciCheck
Donate
Topics
President Biden
Donald Trump
Kamala Harris
JD Vance
Tim Walz
health
Coronavirus
immigration
climate change
View All
About Us
Our Mission
Our Process
Our Funding
Our Staff
Undergraduate Fellows
Awards
Request a Correction
Contact Us
Search
More
Viral Claims
Subscribe
Instagram
Threads
YouTube
X (Twitter)
Facebook
TikTok
FactCheck On the Air
Mailbag
Issues:
climate change
Harris vs. Trump on Climate Change
November 1, 2024
Vice President Kamala Harris and former President Donald Trump have starkly different track records on climate change. To shed light on the two candidates’ climate agendas, we sorted through their campaign materials and recent statements on the campaign trail.
Baseless Claims Proliferate on Hurricanes and Weather Modification
October 11, 2024
Experts say people cannot create or meaningfully alter hurricanes through existing weather modification techniques. That has not stopped a deluge of social media posts baselessly claiming or implying that Hurricanes Helene and Milton were intentionally created, steered or otherwise controlled by someone.
Posts Misrepresent Plan for National Hurricane Center in Project 2025
October 2, 2024
Project 2025 proposes dismantling the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Some social media posts misleadingly claim the project calls for closing the National Hurricane Center, a part of NOAA. A Heritage Foundation spokesperson said Project 2025 “does not call for eliminating the NHC,” though climate experts warned that the project’s proposals would hamper the NHC’s operations.
Trump Clings to Inaccurate Climate Change Talking Points
September 9, 2024
Former President Donald Trump, who has famously called climate change a “hoax” for many years, hasn’t used the word lately with respect to climate change. But he still clings to some similar arguments, and other claims he makes about climate change haven’t changed much over the years.
Trump Revives — and Further Decreases — His Absurdly Low Estimate of Sea Level Rise
August 23, 2024
On the campaign trail this summer, former President Donald Trump has routinely cast doubt on climate change by falsely claiming that the oceans will rise just “one-eighth of an inch over the next 400 years.” He’s previously used the same measurement over a period of 250 years. In fact, the current rate of sea level rise is already a little more than one-eighth of an inch each year.
SAG PAC Inc.
August 20, 2024
SAG PAC Inc. is a super PAC with Republican connections that promotes independent candidate Robert F. Kennedy’s “progressive” record.
Vance Wrong On Child Tax Credit, Harris’ Remarks About Climate Change and Having Kids
August 2, 2024
In defending his “childless cat lady” comments, Republican vice presidential nominee JD Vance wrongly claimed that Vice President Kamala Harris “is calling for an end to the child tax credit.” He also incorrectly claimed that Harris said “it was a bad idea to have kids because of climate change anxiety.”
Trump Distorts the Facts in Attacks on Harris
August 1, 2024
At a campaign rally in St. Cloud, Minnesota, former President Donald Trump rattled off several criticisms of Vice President Kamala Harris, his presumptive opponent in the presidential race. But some of Trump’s attacks ran afoul of the facts.
FactChecking Biden’s NBC News Interview
July 16, 2024
In an interview two days after an attempted assassination of former President Donald Trump, President Joe Biden drew contrasts between himself, his Republican challenger, and Trump’s newly selected vice presidential running mate, Sen. JD Vance of Ohio. We found that Biden made some claims that were misleading, exaggerated or out of context.
Antarctic Ice Loss Is Significant, Contrary to Claims
June 6, 2024
Antarctica is losing ice mass to the ocean, contributing to global sea level rise. But a popular video misrepresented work focused on Antarctic ice shelves — which float in the sea at the edges of the continent — to incorrectly suggest that “it is unclear if Antarctica is losing any ice on balance.”
1
2
3
»
Next page
18
Ask SciCheck
Q: Are wind farms harmful to the environment?
A: Like all energy sources, wind farms have some negative environmental impacts. But getting energy from wind farms results in dramatically lower greenhouse gas emissions than getting it from fossil fuels.
Read the full question and answer
View the Ask SciCheck archives
Have a question?
Ask us.
Donate Now
Because facts matter.
SciCheck's COVID-19/Vaccination Project
Preempting and exposing vaccination and COVID-19 misinformation.
Proyecto de Vacunación/COVID-19
Precaviendo y exponiendo la desinformación sobre el COVID-19 y sus vacunas
SciCheck
Fact-checking science-based claims.
Facebook Initiative
Debunking viral claims.
Players Guide 2024
The special interest groups behind the TV ads.
Viral Spiral
Don’t get spun by internet rumors.
Sign Up
Get free email alerts.
Mailbag
Letters from our readers.
On the Air
Our staff on TV and radio.
NewsFeed Defenders
A media literacy game to detect misinformation.
Archives
Privacy
Copyright Policy
Contact Us
Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help
© Copyright 2024 FactCheck.org
®
A Project of The Annenberg Public Policy Center of the University of Pennsylvania