climate change Archives - Page 2 of 18 - FactCheck.org
Facebook
Twitter
Tumblr
Close
Skip to main content
FactCheck
.org
®
A Project of The Annenberg Public Policy Center
FactCheck
.org
®
Home
Articles
Featured Posts
FactCheck Posts
SciCheck
En Español
2024 elections
Players Guide 2024
Debunking Viral Claims
Ask a Question
Ask FactCheck
Ask SciCheck
Donate
Topics
President Biden
Donald Trump
Kamala Harris
JD Vance
Tim Walz
health
Coronavirus
immigration
climate change
View All
About Us
Our Mission
Our Process
Our Funding
Our Staff
Undergraduate Fellows
Awards
Request a Correction
Contact Us
Search
More
Viral Claims
Subscribe
Instagram
Threads
YouTube
X (Twitter)
Facebook
TikTok
FactCheck On the Air
Mailbag
Issues:
climate change
FactChecking Biden’s State of the Union
March 8, 2024
His speech included misleading claims on inflation, crime, clean energy investments, wages and other subjects.
Posts Mislead About Record-Setting Canadian Wildfires Fueled by Climate Change
February 9, 2024
The record-setting Canadian wildfires in 2023 were caused mainly by lightning igniting forests that were unusually hot and dry, in part due to climate change. But the recent conviction of a Quebec man led to false claims on social media that the majority of the fires were the result of arson.
Electric Vehicles Contribute Fewer Emissions Than Gasoline-Powered Cars Over Their Lifetimes
February 7, 2024
Q: Are electric cars really better for the environment than gasoline-powered cars over their lifetimes?
A: Yes. Electric vehicles typically release fewer greenhouse gas emissions than internal combustion engine vehicles during their life cycles, even after accounting for the increased energy required to make their batteries. And their carbon footprints are expected to get smaller in the near future.
The Whoppers of 2023
December 21, 2023
Claims from the president, a former president and other presidential hopefuls made the list.
Meme Makes Misleading Comparison to Cast Doubt on Climate Change
December 8, 2023
The Earth is warming at the fastest rate seen in the last 10,000 years, according to NASA, and the consensus among climate scientists is that human activity is causing the change. But a meme on social media tries to undermine the reality of climate change by misrepresenting the views and media coverage of a climatologist popular among those who believe climate change is a “hoax.”
FactChecking the Fourth GOP Primary Debate
December 7, 2023
We referee several disputes between the candidates.
Viral Post Uses Altered Audio of Interview with Greta Thunberg
October 26, 2023
Greta Thunberg recalled in a 2022 BBC interview how she began her environmental activism.  But a recent video shared on social media deceptively alters the audio from that interview, making it appear that Thunberg called for the use of eco-friendly military weapons and “vegan grenades.” The altered video originated on a site that labeled it as satire.
Ramaswamy’s Climate Change Spin
September 15, 2023
Republican presidential candidate Vivek Ramaswamy, a self-professed “unapologetic proponent of greater use of fossil fuels,” has repeatedly cited false or misleading statistics to downplay the risks of climate change.
Video: Hearst on the First GOP Debate
August 29, 2023
Our article about the first Republican debate of the 2024 election was the basis for this fact-checking video segment produced by Hearst Television — one of our media partners.
FactChecking the First GOP Debate
August 24, 2023
Eight Republicans kicked off the 2024 presidential election debates in Milwaukee.
«
Previous page
2
3
4
»
Next page
18
Ask SciCheck
Q: Are wind farms harmful to the environment?
A: Like all energy sources, wind farms have some negative environmental impacts. But getting energy from wind farms results in dramatically lower greenhouse gas emissions than getting it from fossil fuels.
Read the full question and answer
View the Ask SciCheck archives
Have a question?
Ask us.
Donate Now
Because facts matter.
SciCheck's COVID-19/Vaccination Project
Preempting and exposing vaccination and COVID-19 misinformation.
Proyecto de Vacunación/COVID-19
Precaviendo y exponiendo la desinformación sobre el COVID-19 y sus vacunas
SciCheck
Fact-checking science-based claims.
Facebook Initiative
Debunking viral claims.
Players Guide 2024
The special interest groups behind the TV ads.
Viral Spiral
Don’t get spun by internet rumors.
Sign Up
Get free email alerts.
Mailbag
Letters from our readers.
On the Air
Our staff on TV and radio.
NewsFeed Defenders
A media literacy game to detect misinformation.
Archives
Privacy
Copyright Policy
Contact Us
Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help
© Copyright 2024 FactCheck.org
®
A Project of The Annenberg Public Policy Center of the University of Pennsylvania