health Archives - Page 3 of 4 - FactCheck.org
Facebook
Twitter
Tumblr
Close
Skip to main content
FactCheck
.org
®
A Project of The Annenberg Public Policy Center
FactCheck
.org
®
Home
Articles
Featured Posts
FactCheck Posts
SciCheck
En Español
2024 elections
Players Guide 2024
Debunking Viral Claims
Ask a Question
Ask FactCheck
Ask SciCheck
Donate
Topics
President Biden
Donald Trump
Kamala Harris
JD Vance
Tim Walz
health
Coronavirus
immigration
climate change
View All
About Us
Our Mission
Our Process
Our Funding
Our Staff
Undergraduate Fellows
Awards
Request a Correction
Contact Us
Search
More
Viral Claims
Subscribe
Instagram
Threads
YouTube
X (Twitter)
Facebook
TikTok
FactCheck On the Air
Mailbag
Issues:
health
Posts Misinterpret NYC Health Tweet About Omicron Subvariant XBB.1.5
January 20, 2023
An unclear tweet from New York City health officials was meant to caution residents that the latest omicron subvariant, XBB.1.5, might be more likely than previous variants to infect vaccinated or previously infected people. Social media posts misinterpreted the tweet to mean that vaccinated people were at higher risk than unvaccinated people.
Social Media Posts Twist Meaning of CDC, FDA Disclosure on Bivalent Booster
January 20, 2023
Government health agencies disclosed a potential safety concern for strokes in those 65 and older with one of the COVID-19 vaccines, but the agencies haven’t found any causal relationship and the concern was flagged by just one of several monitoring systems. Anti-vaccine campaigners, however, have wrongly claimed the agencies have found a link between the boosters and strokes.
Magic Johnson Did Not Contract HIV from a Vaccine, Contrary to Online Claim
January 20, 2023
Since his diagnosis in 1991, NBA player Magic Johnson has repeatedly said he contracted HIV through sexual transmission. But a viral social media post by a spreader of vaccine misinformation falsely claims that Johnson was exposed to the virus from a hepatitis B vaccine.
COVID-19 Vaccines Tested in Clinical Trials, Despite
Bogus Social Media Claims
January 18, 2023
The COVID-19 vaccines were tested in large, randomized controlled trials before the Food and Drug Administration authorized them for emergency use. But a popular YouTube video spins a conspiracy theory that distorts legal codes to falsely claim otherwise.
No Surge in Athlete Deaths, Contrary to Widespread Anti-Vaccine Claims
January 13, 2023
Sports medicine experts say there has been no increase in sudden death or cardiac injury among U.S. athletes since the COVID-19 vaccines became available. Yet anti-vaccine campaigners, comparing unreliable numbers to an unrelated study, have again spread a false narrative about vaccine safety since NFL player Damar Hamlin suffered cardiac arrest.
NFL Player Damar Hamlin’s Cardiac Arrest Triggers Unfounded Social Media Claims
January 3, 2023
Buffalo Bills player Damar Hamlin collapsed on the field and suffered a cardiac arrest moments after taking a hit to his chest during a tackle. While it’s not yet known why his heart stopped, some experts say his condition is most likely due to a heart rhythm problem as a result of that impact. Still, people on social media have baselessly speculated that it was caused by a COVID-19 vaccine.
No Evidence Flu Vaccine Increases Strep A Infections, Contrary to Online Claims
December 23, 2022
Several European countries have reported an early spike of group A strep infections, mostly among children, including cases of rare but deadly bacterial infections. There is no evidence the increase is being caused by nasal spray flu vaccines, as social media posts baselessly suggest. Flu vaccination may even indirectly prevent strep A.
Social Media Posts Misrepresent FDA’s COVID-19 Vaccine Safety Research
December 23, 2022
A vaccine safety surveillance study from the Food and Drug Administration has been misrepresented online. The paper did not establish a link between the Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine and blood clots, as some have claimed — and to date, other, more robust research has not identified such associations.
DeSantis’ Dubious COVID-19 Vaccine Claims
December 21, 2022
While announcing a request for a grand jury probe into “crimes and wrongdoing” related to the COVID-19 vaccines, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis and his panel of contrarian experts repeatedly suggested the shots were too risky. But such claims are unsupported and based on flawed analyses.
Autopsy Study Doesn’t Show COVID-19 Vaccines Are Unsafe
December 21, 2022
To date, the benefits of COVID-19 mRNA vaccination outweigh the risks, which include a rare but increased risk of myocarditis, or heart inflammation. Social media posts, however, are citing a German autopsy study to misleadingly suggest otherwise.
1
2
3
»
Next page
4
Ask SciCheck
Q: Are wind farms harmful to the environment?
A: Like all energy sources, wind farms have some negative environmental impacts. But getting energy from wind farms results in dramatically lower greenhouse gas emissions than getting it from fossil fuels.
Read the full question and answer
View the Ask SciCheck archives
Have a question?
Ask us.
Donate Now
Because facts matter.
SciCheck's COVID-19/Vaccination Project
Preempting and exposing vaccination and COVID-19 misinformation.
Proyecto de Vacunación/COVID-19
Precaviendo y exponiendo la desinformación sobre el COVID-19 y sus vacunas
SciCheck
Fact-checking science-based claims.
Facebook Initiative
Debunking viral claims.
Players Guide 2024
The special interest groups behind the TV ads.
Viral Spiral
Don’t get spun by internet rumors.
Sign Up
Get free email alerts.
Mailbag
Letters from our readers.
On the Air
Our staff on TV and radio.
NewsFeed Defenders
A media literacy game to detect misinformation.
Archives
Privacy
Copyright Policy
Contact Us
Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help
© Copyright 2024 FactCheck.org
®
A Project of The Annenberg Public Policy Center of the University of Pennsylvania